in this episode I sat down with Frey
Frey is an online directory King he
teaches us how to build an online
directory that does anywhere between two
and $10,000 a month of actual passive
income something that you can work on
Just for about 15 minutes a week he
talks about how do you find an idea how
do you validate that idea what tools do
you need um and this was a super special
episode because uh this is actually
Frey's first podcast that he's ever been
on he's an upand cominging Creator he's
got only a few thousand subscribers um
but the guy sits on a treasure chest of
gold um and you're going to learn a lot
around how to build a directory from 0
to one in this episode I hope you enjoy
[Music]
it baby
okay we got Frey on the Pod how I met
Frey is actually pretty interesting he
did a reaction video to my John Rush how
to build a 10K a month online directory
video that his reaction video went viral
I invited him on the Pod and what are we
going to learn today Frey yeah so today
I wanted to show you guys how I built my
first directory website um this was
built back in October of
2022 and uh it's really different than
what most people think of when they
think of a directory website you know
most people think of just a simple and
modern website you put in your address
your ZIP code your city and then there's
a modern map that pops up um this is way
simpler and the reason I love this is
because um you know at least for my
first directory website it's been
monetized for 18 months straight it's uh
takes me you know about 15 minutes a
month to maintain so it's Evergreen and
location based uh which is my favorite
kind of directory to build um last month
I think it did around $2,300 in revenue
and so overall it's just a really easy
way to get started in your in your first
directory build and um yeah you don't
need to use AI tools although I
recommend it for some parts uh and yeah
it's just a it's a great start to get to
your first 2 to 10K in mrr as an encoder
which is which I am and by the end of
this episode what will people be able to
do so by the end I really wanted to
focus on finding and validating a niche
but I'm going to show you how you can go
out and basically create a really basic
directory that's optimized for SEO you
know it's a um it's a really simple step
of finding an idea validating that the
idea and making sure that the directory
Niche that you're choosing is actually
solving a problem I'll show you how to
get some data clean the data and enrich
it um and then we'll go into how to
implement it on on a on a WordPress
website but you can use any content
management content management system uh
that you beautiful all right let's get
our hands dirty all right so before we
go into the T tutorial before we go into
the tutorial I wanted to play a game so
one of the things that I like to do in
my free time is find different weird
directory
websites
and I want you to just guess how much
monthly traffic this is getting and then
I'll go into some stats around how much
I think it's making um and just just a
couple stats but this is the first
website we have
roadsideamerica.com
right off the bat not the prettiest
website but just looking what you know
and I'll give you a little context this
is a directory on quirky roadside
attractions in the United States So
based on what you're looking at what are
you thinking here I'm gonna say 50,000
uniques a month okay that's pretty good
let's let's take a look
here H reps yeah I and the reason I say
that is first of all it's it's hideous
it's got like what is that is that comic
Sands you know for Roadside America like
if you're close to Comics SS like uh you
know yeah May Lord be with you you know
what I mean you need all the help you
can get but I do think that this
Niche I bet you that it's it's there's
not that much
competition yeah it's it's definitely an
interesting one so this one's getting
85,000 monthly visitors um pretty
impressive here and um
couple things I want to point out so you
know beyond the impressive traffic you
know we have monetization through
display ads so it's plastered with a
bunch of display ads there um I think
it's around like 96% tier one traffic so
US Canada Australia UK those kind of
countries and if anyone knows SEO you
know the last two years have been insane
like the the Google core updates have
been uh you know it's it's been a it's
been demolished out here you know don't
get me started bro don't get me started
yeah so this has been pretty resilient
um if I were to guess how much this is
making I would probably conservatively
say 5 to 7,000 a month very passively
because of the display ads but um yeah
that's the first website um super basic
like static directory as as simple as
you can get and um I'll make a quick
note and say the tutorial I'm I'm
showing today is a static website so
it'll be kind of similar ilar to this
build all right let's move on to the
second one here which is
atlasobscura.com
this is um this is a directory about
it's so it's a worldwide directory and
it's about um like attractions that are
off the beaten path things that maybe
only the locals would know if you're
visiting a certain
country quick break in the Pod to tell
you a little bit about startup Empire so
startup Empire is my private membership
where it's a bunch of people like me
like you who want to build out their
startup ideas now they're looking for
content to help accelerate that they're
looking for potential co-founders
they're looking for uh tutorials from
people like me to come in and tell them
how do you do email marketing how do you
build an audience how do you go viral on
Twitter all these different things
that's exactly what startup Empire is
and it's for people who want to start a
startup but are looking for ideas or
it's for people who have a startup but
just they're not seeing the traction uh
that they need so you can check out the
link to Startup empire.co in the
description I'm going to say 35,000
uniques a month
okay 30 okay okay 35,000 let's take a
[Music]
look oh my God million
uh insanely impressive uh directory
website also
noticing very little to no effect from
the Google core updates um you know we
got 90 91% uh tier one traffic monetized
through display ads um you know we can
start to see some of these ads from
AdSense they're also selling a book
which is interesting but if I were to
guess how much this is making I think a
really conservative guess just from
AdSense is around 30 ,000 a month but I
really think it's probably closer to 50
or 60 um it's always hard to tell but
very nice website and props to whoever
owns this it's a nice one props to the
millionaire who owns it from their
Chateau yeah yeah and um yeah I mean
this is just super useful too so I'm all
about creating directory websites that
actually like provide entertainment or
solve a problem so that's that's really
cool all right let's go to the last one
here
this one's a little bit morbid but we
have the findagrave.com website
directory you can find where dead
presidents are buried you can find all
sorts of interesting burial sites but uh
what what are you thinking here just
based on what you see here in the niche
I think I think it's big I think this is
at least a million uniques a
month I think that is a pretty good
guess
take a look 1.4 million monthly
visitors absolutely crushing it um also
resilient to Google absolutely killing
it absolutely killing it an amazing this
is like one of my favorite because I've
never heard of this website and I just
found it and I can't believe there's
this much interest
around um where where people are buried
it's just not something that has ever
come across my interest I mean it makes
sense right like it makes sense it does
it does you're trying to you're trying
to find where someone's buried and
you're looking for an easy way to do it
findagrave.com yep exactly so I don't
see this going going away anytime soon
um and this I would say so again 92%
tier one traffic AdSense um is their
main form of monetization they have all
sorts of stuff here this is I'm going to
put this I think this could be a
$100,000 a month website but I think you
know 60 70k like is a very fair estimate
here um but really like this just shows
how large of a directory website you can
go build and that is possible out there
um and uh it kind of breaks my brain I
don't know about you it's it's kind of
kind of nutty to think
about I think it's nty to think about
also cuz my thesis on director and I
kind and I spoke a little about this in
the John Rush
episode is that it's a really good place
like I think people are monetizing
directory is wrong like they're just
putting AdSense we saw one example of
someone literally selling a
book um the opportuni is actually to
build software on top of these
directories so you use directories to
get the traffic you get all these
eyeballs in a particular Niche you build
software now you can use AI to build
software
instantly and you get SAS like
multiples uh on that software business
and then you've got the consistent
traffic that you're getting from the
directory 100% 100% I totally agree um I
still like the I still will say AdSense
has been the closest thing that I've
ever experienced to passive income so
there's that if people are going to
optimize a lifestyle business then okay
that's fine but if you're going for
something that's you know that's big
then I totally agree and I will just
really quickly show you one boring
website that wasn't on the list but this
is a directory on you know farms and
csas and their biggest call to action is
their SAS so they actually just like
have these little like advertisements
for this software that they own um I'm
pretty sure they own it because it
shares the same like business domain but
yeah like this is a perfect example of
them funneling relevant website traffic
into a SAS product that they own which I
think is incredibly
smart so that's
cool um awesome so should we dive into
how to build a profitable directory I I
don't see why not all right let's do it
um so the thing with my so like my
favorite kinds of directories are
evergreen location-based
directories and the reason for that is
because
once you have a directory it's not
really fun a year or two down the line
when you have to upkeep data and so it's
nice to to find things that you don't
have to update very often so the thing
that I do to find ideas is I'll go to
HRS and I'll type in near me into the
keyword
Explorer and this is just going to show
me this long list of local queries that
are getting tons of search volume and
this is my favorite way to just on a
Saturday afternoon I'm just going to
browse this and look for different ideas
and you can basically start looking for
keywords that have really high monthly
search volume and low keyword difficulty
um these are quite big and in my
experience I've learned what to avoid uh
my sweet spot is actually around 30 to
100,000 uh monthly searches so I'll
click you know into the later pages and
start to look look for different types
of ideas um but you know a couple things
that I'll avoid just sharing some things
that I've learned the hard way um I
personally don't like niches where it's
really seasonal so I think one of these
said pumpkin patches near me oh yeah
there it is so 152,000 monthly searches
um but it's so seasonal I don't really
want a website that I put a lot of time
and effort in just to monetize really
well for a month
um the second thing I avoid are you know
niches where the data might be difficult
to get so one of these says earthquake
near me and I imagine at least for me I
don't I wouldn't know how to go and get
data on earthquakes um and it also
sounds like something that is kind of
competitive and the third thing that I
would avoid are really big branded
keywords so Taco Bell near me right um
couple reasons why I avoid this the
first thing is that they're probably
already going to have an updated
directory and they' probably already
solved the problem of driving their
customers to you know a Taco Bell near
them but the second reason I think is
more important which is it's just two
one-dimensional
like people looking for taco B Bell near
me in Google aren't looking for
different types of Taco Bell there's
like very one-dimensional um search
intent and that's not what I'm looking
for I want to um and I'll I'll show you
an example that I found uh I actually
think it's it's somewhere on like the
14th page or something but we're going
to be using the example dog parks near
me for this tutorial today so I'll show
you
that so dog park near me this is one
that I found using that exact same
method and get 73,000 monthly visitors
uh or searches I should say and uh not
too difficult a 27 out of 100 in terms
of keyword difficulty so that's not too
bad but check out all of these other
keywords that contain dog park indoor
dog park offleash dog park dog water
park there's a lot of fragmentation in
the search in tent and it's
multi-dimensional if you will but the
point is like people aren't satisfied
looking for just any dog park they're
looking for certain types of dog Parks
maybe ones that offer water fountains
you know benches to sit on
shade and all sorts of different types
of uh amenities that you could basically
capitalize on you know when you build
out a directory like this I'm thinking
okay I can include these uh to enrich my
directory and make it more useful save
people more time rather than having to
go to Google Maps and click around in
the reviews and figure out if there's
shade or benches or not so that's kind
of the first thing that I look for high
search volume relatively low keyword
difficulty and a good amount of
fragmentation when it comes to the
search intent which we can see here um
what what what sort of keyword
difficulty is good in your opinion I
think anything under 20 is pretty easy
in my opinion um I think keyword
difficulty is a little bit misleading
too because there are some uh very low
keyword difficulty
niches um and I'll give you a quick
example um it says that you know fast
food near me is a keyword difficulty for
but it's really not going to be easy to
rank for that um and there's a lot of
examples where keyword difficulty is
really low but there's a lot of
competition or there's few competition
but their their backlinks are so
dominant you're just not going to be
able would outrank them and get traffic
to your website but overall generally
speaking I think under 20 is a pretty
good bet
um and um yeah yeah I would say under 20
um that's pretty good if you know what
you're doing then I think 40 to 50 is
also possible uh I've had some like
programmatic directories that I've built
where I've targeted keyword difficulty
70 keywords that are getting 60,000
monthly visitors and I've created like
on a fresh domain I was able to rank on
the first page in like two months for
some of the keywords so it just really
depends and keyword difficulty is kind
of a weird metric but it's a start it's
a good start to know how easy it
is um so after we figure out people are
looking for different types of dog parks
I'm going to go into some competitive
research and for that I just use good
old Google so I'm just going to type in
Dog Park Los Angeles for
example and I'm just going to scroll
through and look for any kinds of
directories that are on the first page
so you can see here I found this one
right here this is a um pretty big dog
related website I don't know if you ever
heard of it but bring fedo pretty
massive
website and they do have a dog park
directory and I might just click
around and ask
myself is this a directory that I can
improve on can I build something that's
better than this um and so this is
pretty nice um I also like to check how
much traffic uh some of these are
getting but let's just compile a couple
different um competitors so that was
kind of the main one I I'll also just
type in dog park near me which is the
exact match um I also found this one
this is an interesting
competitor and it's a really basic
directory so let's just see how much
this one's getting in terms of
traffic all right so yeah I remember
this one this one was interesting
because it's getting 21,000 monthly
visitors but when you look at it it's
super basic and if we put in a sample
zip code just put like a Los Angeles zip
code it's so simple it just tells you
the name and the address of the dog park
but if I were a dog park own if I were a
dog owner which I am and I was taking my
dog to the park I would want to know a
little bit more information so off the
bat I'm already thinking there's ways to
improve this there's features that
aren't listed here that aren't that
helpful and it's are it's still getting
21,000 monthly visitors so this is a
great website where I'm making a mental
note and I'm like this is this is my
bounty I'm gonna set a bounty on this I
can do I can do better than this when
you when you see something like
this smile goes on your face right
you're like okay there's not only have I
identified that there's an opportunity
to build a directory here there's a not
the leading directory but you know top
directory one of the top
directories couldn't be more basic if it
tried exactly it's it's all it's got a
lot of positive signals that yeah this
is pretty unhelpful yet people are going
to websites like this and it just shows
you that Google Maps is not satisfying
everyone's needs if Google Maps was
doing that people would probably just
not come to a website like this but this
is a really really good sign that um
people are looking elsewhere
and websites like these are taking
advantage of that so why not just build
something and um take that traffic from
them basically you know it is it is what
it is right SEO is a a PVP game you know
we can't all be Top Rank and and
unfortunately I'm gonna have to set a
bounty on you nyab bone that's just how
it is it's nothing personal but it's
just it's just what's going to happen um
so this is really cool and um you know
this is also a good example um
I think I looked up the traffic for so
if we look at this example and we just
try to figure out how much traffic uh
dog parks are on this website just get
an idea real quick all right so 13,000
not too bad um it's significant enough
where I'm still ex you know I'm still
excited like that's that's not too bad I
don't think they specialize in or
they're not targeting dog parks the
general keyword that gets you know
70,000 monthly searches seems like
offleash dog parks is kind of the the
area that they optimize their their
pages on but still still good and for
this I would say like it's more useful
to
see what kind of competition I'm up
against because it's way better than
nyab bone it's much more filled out
there's better
photos but again
like where
you know where are the where are the
features saying whether this has dog
bags or water fountains or benches and
um all the all the other good stuff that
I want to know if I'm taking my dog to
the dog park so this is uh yeah so I I
would probably spend another you know 30
minutes to an hour looking at different
competition on Google uh for dog park
related keywords but I think this is
good enough especially in isab bone for
me to go ahead and say all right this is
good so the next thing after I have my
competition I'm going to just look it up
uh I'm just going to try and use Reddit
to confirm or not confirm if this is a
problem worth solving so if I just type
in you know Dog Park Los Angeles
Reddit so looking on Reddit for dog park
Los Angeles for an example we can
already see a bunch of different forums
where people are looking for dog parks
so again another great sign that people
are looking elsewhere they're not over
Reliant and finding everything they need
on Google Maps so there's always some
discussion you can skim through um you
can also just compile a bunch of
different links and stick them into chat
gbt and ask for you know you can prompt
it for a sentiment analysis and do it
that way but I like to do the good
oldfashioned way look it up and read the
comments and one thing I found because
I've been kind of using dog parks as a
case study so I know I know this to be
true but I looked up dog park in New
York and I realized that in New York for
some reason they don't call dog parks
dog park necessarily they call them dog
run and so that led me to a rabbit hole
where I you know looked up all sorts of
Reddit posts and I landed on this this
is a post from six years ago where
someone literally just made a post
sharing their Google Map pins of all the
dog parks and what's interesting about
this post is it got a decent amount of
upvotes you know 115 upvotes there's a
lot of interaction here around you know
different dog parks in
Brooklyn um but there are some uh yeah
so this this is an interesting comment I
think this is the one that stuck out to
me this person said I wish I had time to
visit all of them and make descriptions
and take photos not all dog dog runs are
created equal so it' be cool to find out
about really nice ones that aren't near
nearby I mean you can't get more you
can't get more uh you know you can't get
better than that in terms of a social
signal that's showing you that people
want curation people want hypers
specific uh features uh when they're
looking for dog parks so this is just
another green flag that says yeah this
is this is a problem that could be worth
solving
um so just to recap you know we
basically just found an idea that has
high search volume low competition it
has fragmented search volume that we
could take advantage of there is some
competition out there so we set a bounty
on
nyone that is already getting a decent
amount of monthly visitors and then we
also verified through social listening
on Reddit to confirm that yeah people
are having a hard time finding these dog
parks and they're talking about it so
let's go build out the actual dog park
directory um that's going to cater to
these people's needs um at this point by
the way Frey are you gonna publish like
are you gonna publish this dog
park
directory I think so I think there's
like a couple things that I'm worried
about so I've noticed anytime I mention
a website people make copycats
immediately
and SEO is one of those things where you
know I'm not going to have any back
links if I launch something like this so
there a little bit of vulnerability but
yes the short answer is I do plan on
launching this eventually I'm just right
now optimizing the best ways to automate
some of the data enrichment and some of
the implementation on a CMS through Ai
and like using bolt. I'm playing around
with different tools to streamline that
but I do want to publish this and just
see how it goes cool all right let's
build Baby Let's Do It um let's get some
data uh that was a this was a big topic
I think a lot of people ask me where do
you get your
data and the simple answer is web
scraping
tools I know there's a lot of different
web scraping tools out there but I just
use outs scraper not affiliated just
what I've always used and um they have
this Google Map scraper here
and the first thing I do is I actually
land what before I even scrape data I go
to Google Maps and I type in you know
Dog Park Los
Angeles and what I'm looking for here
are actual Google categories for my
Niche so luckily we have this that says
dog park you know there's some Athletic
Park is Apparently one but I want to
look for a Google category because
scraping data when there's an actual
dedicated category for that is a lot
easier so this is cool um I've confirmed
that we do have dog park which means we
can just click on this category here and
we can click on exact match so it'll
basically get us all the data for dog
parks on Google Maps um now if you're
working in a niche where you don't have
a category you can always just
enter a plane
query so let's just say for example off
leash dog parks was the thing you could
go ahead and scrape all the data related
to off Le dog parks it'll be way more
data and there will be a lot of junk um
but it is one option so you're not
limited that way and by the way if you
get I I I'd imagine that that's more
common than people think like that
happens more common than people think if
you do get a lot of junk data how do you
normally parse that data to make it
useful yeah so I have um so there are
ways
that um I do have a really big data
sheet I have 100 I have a data sheet
with
119,000 um rows that I basically parsed
it down to 5,000 uh there's a couple
ways you can do it so with a lot of junk
data you
can with dog parks uh with dog parks
specifically like the way I would do it
is probably just delete all the listings
and rows that don't have addresses so
that's that's an easy one that will
remove some and then there will be a a
good amount that have um you know no
reviews or like one review you can get
rid of a lot that way
um I uh I covered it in a video it's
it's quite a long it's a tedious process
um I've tried to use chat gbt to data
yeah that was basically my question like
have you I was I was wondering if you're
going to get there like do you use chat
GPT or Cloe as I call it Cloe everyone
makes fun of me um
Claude um to basically go through the
data to help you figure that out I do I
think you just need to have a really
solid prompt but sometimes it's easier
to manually parse the data first cuz
you'll get some data like Big Lots or
like you know Walmart and it's it has
nothing to do with dog park but because
someone mentioned dog in the reviews
it's just pulling up that data somehow
so I would yeah I would I would use Chad
GT um but I would first manually just
get rid of the big ones um and yeah
there there's yeah I guess you could use
it off the bat too um
but I guess I like to manually do it
because I like to make sure I get all
the dog parks and I've noticed that it
can get rid of a lot of the good quality
listings if you just go straight into
chat gbt and have it remove what it
doesn't think a dog park is if that
makes sense the the old uh throw the
baby out with the bath water whatever
that quote means really like I know what
it means but like I don't know where
it's stems from um it's very odd all
right yeah let's let's get back to it
all right um yeah I mean I never heard
of that but uh let's uh yeah so
basically um yeah so basically we're
lucky we have a dog park as a category
um we're going to make sure to click
exact match otherwise you're going to
get a massive data sheet with a bunch of
junk and for me I like to create
Nationwide directories because why not
take advantage of all that search volume
so I just keep this as
defaulted um and then really the only
place I touch um is the parameters and
this is just the basics right think
about what people would want to know if
they're coming to a dog park directory
they're probably going to want to know
the the name maybe a phone number if
it's some kind of like indoor dog park
address Street postal code State you
know there are some maybe some reviews
that you want to include
dude I always like to add street view
you know working
hours and most recently I've been adding
location link which I'll show you why is
really important in a moment it's great
for data enrichment and yeah so but
these are the basics you know and then
I'll go ahead and just click get
data it'll give us an idea of how much
it's going to cost how many
rows sometimes this is just completely
off like I know it's completely off but
but you would go ahead and click
confirm and I am not going to spend more
money so I pulled up the result uh it's
usually pretty quick too uh I know most
times it says it's going to take 12 to
like 30 hours or something but this took
two hours um I've never had it take too
long but um let's pull this up here cool
all right so here we have
6245 different dog parks so quite large
you know this is a lot of data
and um probably not the most uh beginner
friendly for a static directory build
that I'm going to show you but it's okay
you will use it ex as an example if you
wanted to start like cleaning this data
a little bit um you know I'm not an
Excel Pro but I kind of just like to use
the reviews maybe if it doesn't have
that many reviews I would get rid of you
know anything under you know 10 reviews
or something like that um but this is
basically our data sheet and because we
do have that exact match category in
Google we don't have to do too much
cleaning um but if we did have a plain
query that's when you know you would
really want to spend some time uh and
there's a lot of ways you can do it um I
made a video on it it's maybe not the
best but it gets rid of a lot of the
junk um I I think I yeah 119,000 rows
down to like 5,000 rows and in that
video
but um since I know it's already
cleaned I'm basically going to jump to
the data enrichment and this is really
important because
I'm going to try to include all the
different features that we were looking
at um from our keyword if we go back
to dog park near
me I'm going to basically enrich the
data and use my knowledge of HRS you
know indoor dog park off Le dog park I
want to rank for all these keywords that
are getting traffic but I also want to
look on Google Maps and this is the way
I typically like to enrich data let's
just click on one
here and what I'll do is I'll go to the
reviews and I'll just start looking at
the different types of tags and as I
click through these reviews I'm making a
mental note of the same types of tags
and I guess features of dog parks that
keep showing up so this one has shade
you know parking um you know we just
kind of keep on going with um shade
again shade trees but I basically am
going through and trying to do some
pattern recognition water
parking a lot of the same stuff starts
popping up um
so because I already spent like 30
minutes doing this I can tell you that a
lot of the most common things people
want in their dog parks are water
fountains for their dogs they want some
shade they want benches to sit on and
they want you know dog bags some people
also want like you know apparently trash
cans and stuff but for the most part
those are the core things that I'm
making a mental note of uh in addition
to it being an indoor dog park and off
offleash dog park so what we can do
here and this is pretty manual but this
is how I did it back when I first
started it basically make all these
different um
columns for data
Arrangement you know water is there
shade and so you'd basically continue
doing
this we'll just we'll just use this as
an
example the old way that I would do it
back then was super manual like if you
think about the Journey of someone
finding a dog park with this um or if
you think about the journey that someone
has to
uh the or I guess the way people go out
and find dog parks with shade it's super
manual right they have to like look on
Google maybe there's a shade button
maybe there's not and they have to type
in shade manually it's just not that
fast and not that convenient so
um basically when you're enriching data
like you can do it manually but it's
it's God awful and I wouldn't recommend
it it's extremely tedious especially
with um a niche with 6,000 listings um
so I am working on a tool that automates
this uh and this is where the location
ID comes in so this isn't available it's
just something I'm working on with
someone but it's very much a scratcher
own itch project that we chose where I
have this sample data if we look at it
we can see I have the location ID um
and it's basically going to automate the
data enrichment aspect of this which is
easily the most tedious so if we just
put in shade and
then have it look for the keyword shade
I'll prompt it and
say um does this dog park have
shade we can add different columns you
know for benches and other things like
that but um basically I
we'll process
this and this is save this is going to
save me so much time I mean well yeah
back in October 2022 I did everything
manually granted that first directory
website I only had like 130 different
listings so it was not too bad but
something with this much data you're
going to want to be able to utilize um
some automation whether it's you know
CLA or Cloe or
something like that cool shots fired
shots
fired um this is it I mean basically
what it did is it read the URL so like
if you're going to do this just a pro
tip for anyone out there who's building
this um or wanting to automate the data
enrichment it basically needs to read
the Google URL for that specific dog
park and then it can
basically look through the reviews and
tell you if there's a sha a shaded area
or benches and stuff so using that we
using that
URL um it basically shows us the review
it created this new column for shade
which we we had up there and in this
case it says true because multiple
reviews mention the presence of shade um
although some reviewers wish more so I'd
basically like you know use this to
enrich the data rather than manually
going and saying like yes and going down
the line that way so that it's just
something that I'm building with someone
uh just to scratch my own itch and uh
it's it's not like available but you
know if if it is in demand I guess maybe
we'll release it uh that's the
plan uh but that's essentially the big
idea enrich your data because again
we're trying to make something better
than the bone we're trying to make
something better than bring fedo and as
great as bring fedo
is you know how how do I know if I
forget my dog bags how do I know quiet
water Waters Park is going to have it
you know I'm just it's a water park like
I don't know what am I going to have to
call them so there are some
opportunities even with the most
dominant dog park directories where I'm
like yeah this data enrichment is going
to be what sets me apart and it's going
to be what brings people back to the
webs site because I went so deep to list
all this
information um so imagine this is all
you know cleaned out
um we can now go into how we actually
format it onto the the website uh and
for this I'm I'm doing it the dumb way I
have WordPress up somewhere here I'll
clean this W I didn't expect you to say
WordPress got to be real I've been
playing with framer so I've been seeing
so many builds with framer so I'm I'm
learning that um bolt. new is super
interesting but I I I guess I just
wanted to bring people back to how I did
it and it's easily probably the dumbest
way nowadays but it's so dumb it's
inspiring it's like you can brute force
it if you want and just start it's not
the best way at all but um I did just
create a WordPress website as a example
for the format
so any CMS works I've seen some amazing
builds with framer so if you know framer
I'd probably recommend that but you can
use WordPress and really basic themes
like my first directory website was
using Elementor Pro which is like I mean
love them but not the best way to create
a website not the only option to create
a website um but I created a sample
directory here and
the reason I I'm showing you this is
because this is what I call a static
pillar page directory uh and remember
when I said that it it's totally
different than what most people think of
when they think of a
directory this is the kind of slept on
format and the reason for that is it's
basically a super long page it's
completely it's like level one of
directory builds and um you know it's it
works really well it uses what's called
a pillar page which I feel like is kind
of an outdated SEO principle but
essentially very comprehensive page with
all of your
content on a single page and um as silly
as this
looks it works really well from an SEO
perspective so let's let's just break
this down like I think anyone who's
watching this will be able to create a
web website like this um but you know
have your you know you have your header
one with your keyword you have your
table of
contents and then you essentially are
targeting all of
these City specific um dog park keywords
so Dog Park Long Beach you also have
Rosy's dog beach um which is an example
listing a nice photo here is where your
data enrichment would be and then your
basic you know address phone number
hours and then we have a map Ed you can
throw on some reviews or you can leave
it out but I would say don't sleep on
this format like if you're just starting
your directory and you want to create
one pretty quickly and see how well it
does try this out because from an SEO
perspective this is essentially taking
advantage of the highest search volume
keywords which would be like dog parks
Long Beach dog parks Los
Angeles and even if you were to go out
and create a programmatic directory you
know which I have those
directories the most searched pages on
those directories are the location pages
so I I'll give you a quick example
without veering too far off but if we
look at this bring fedo
website and we just look at the site
Explorer and we look at their top
pages all of their most traffic pages
are the location pages so dogf friendly
Restaurant New York
work pet friendly hotels in
Dallas it's not necessarily the actual
listings that are getting traffic so
what you're doing with a really watered
down pillar page static directory like
um like this one is you're basically
targeting those keywords that are
already getting the most traffic and
you're putting them on one page um
so another thing with this is that
um it's perfect for display ad
monetization uh there
are naturally they really long pages so
you're going to be able to fit a lot of
AD placements just like how a YouTuber
would make more money from an hourong
video with more ad placements it's kind
of the same way so if you were to go
with that monetization it's pretty good
another thing is that with
this um you know with this area down
here this is basically your internal
linking strategy it's super simple super
straightforward where people will end up
clicking on different states to look at
those dog
parks and that's really it um one of the
biggest advantages with a pillar page
static directory is the keyword clusters
that you're going to end up ranking for
so with my first
directory one of my state pages will
rank for like 1,300 keywords and it's
because I'm targeting all of these kind
of City specific keywords here so that's
kind of the Simplicity of it um again
very very
basic level one of directories but
amazing if you just want to dip your
feet in in the water and um you know get
to I would say like two to 2 to 10K in
Mr is definitely possible um that first
website I showed you is a static
directory so this is
like this is this is pretty nice it's
actually kind of one of my favorite
builds because of how simple and dumb it
is
um yeah I think what's cool about it is
you can go and build this use you know
use WordPress use framer use whatever um
and have it just be this $2,000 $5,000 a
month thing that just sends you what I
you know I use the term mailbox money um
someone once told me that years ago the
concept is every single month you know
it's like they send you a check and in
your mailbox and it's enough money to
just like pay for your bills pay for
your rent um which allows you maybe to
work on other stuff maybe you have a
full-time job that you really care about
um or you can
actually like was saying earlier you can
use this as the foundation of a really
much bigger idea so you can take dog
park near me and eventually turn it
into some SAS product for public parks
or maybe it's a consumer product that
sells you know that's a competitor to um
the farmer's dog which does $500 million
a year in Revenue so um the choice is
yours and
that's why I think directory that's why
I've been bringing on more and more
directories onto the uh people onto the
the Pod because I think that the
average you know Tech founder isn't
thinking about building directories
totally totally I think they're
extremely underrated
and so 1996 as someone said in my
comment section so boring look how
boring like look at this you know I
couldn't I yawned in this in this
interview at one point that's totally
acceptable in fact I'm happy you did
because I think people are going to look
at this and be like there's no way this
works but this is literally how I built
my first directory and yeah you could
doesn't take too many of these types of
websites to have enough to keep you AF
float pay your bills um maybe leave your
full-time job to build something even
greater uh something more similar to you
know what we what like the directory
websites I showed in the very beginning
but um I will say there's a lot of other
directories that are like way higher in
terms of earning potential um you know
programmatic SEO has been a really hot
topic so that's been like a programmatic
directory where you sell leads to
service-based businesses that's amazing
there's so many different opportunities
there um but even with this like I think
anything in the pet space is interesting
because there's a lot of affiliate plays
that you can include there's also even a
potential to create some kind of lead
magnet where you collect a lot of data
so I'm sure you've heard of um BarkBox
this is the company that Kevin oi I
think on Shark Tank invested in and it's
it's an interesting one because they I
think we're only doing like three or
four million in Revenue but they got
acquired for like 90 million and the
reason for that was because the actual
like data so they sell DNA kits for dogs
and cats the data that they acquired was
way more valuable than their actual like
annual revenue so there might be a way
to maybe create a newsletter on the dog
park
directory somehow collect data around
dogs um but even in its most simplest
form BarkBox does have an affiliate
program if people are looking for dog
parks maybe there some alignment with
the Searchers intent where people want
to know more about the health of their
dogs so this is a play like I would
definitely experiment with this if I
were to publish a dog park directory so
you have like money coming through ads
maybe an affiliate
play perhaps build some kind of email
list or lead magnet to collect more
information on dog owners there's just a
lot that you can do once you start
monetizing it and once you get a lot of
traffic
um but yeah very simple format
and kind of just speaks for
itself if you enjoyed this episode
please let us know in the comment
section I read every single comment uh
so we would love to see you in there
Frey thank you so much for giving us
this tutorial where could people find
you on the internet yeah so um YouTube I
just started posting more directory
content on YouTube it's just my name
foru um you can follow me on x again
just freay chew and yeah that's the best
way cool we'll include that in the show
notes uh hope everyone feels a little
more
sophisticated uh with online directories
in a way um we didn't create the most
beautiful directory but we did create a
directory that people needed and you can
always add the the lipstick afterwards
so um I'm proud of what what you came
I'm proud of what we built today and um
hopefully uh people enjoy this and we
can have you on again Frey that sounds
good yeah um appreciate you having me
and uh I I'll just end it on this which
is whether you're going and building
something big or something small like
this those first two steps are the same
you know finding that idea validating
that that idea getting and parsing data
so um yeah I I I I think it doesn't
matter what you're building those are
where you want to focus most of your
time and I'll leave it at that amen
all right see you later thanks Greg
[Music]